Datakit (#1243)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_how-tos/get-started-with-datakit.md

      include_content: prereqs/gateway-license
      icon_url: /assets/icons/gateway.svg

cleanup:
  inline:
    - title: Clean up Konnect environment
      include_content: cleanup/platform/konnect
      icon_url: /assets/icons/gateway.svg
    - title: Destroy the {{site.base_gateway}} container
      include_content: cleanup/products/gateway
      icon_url: /assets/icons/gateway.svg

min_version:
    gateway: '3.9'

related_resources:
  - text: Datakit plugin
    url: /plugins/datakit/
---

## 1. Start {{site.base_gateway}} with the WASM engine

Start the {{site.base_gateway}} container with the `KONG_WASM` variable:

```sh
curl -Ls https://get.konghq.com/quickstart | bash -s -- \
   -e KONG_LICENSE_DATA \
   -e KONG_WASM=on
```

## 2. Create a Service and a Route

To be able to validate the configuration, we need to create a Gateway Service and a Route:

<!--vale off -->
{% entity_examples %}
entities:
  services:
    - name: example-service
      url: http://httpbin.konghq.com
  routes:
    - name: example-route
      paths:
        - /
      strip_path: true
      service: 
        name: example-service
{% endentity_examples %}
<!--vale on -->

## 3. Enable Datakit

> Let's test out Datakit by combining responses from two third-party API calls, then returning directly to the client:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test out Datakit by combining responses from two third-party API calls, then returning the result directly back to the client:
```

<!--vale off -->
{% entity_examples %}
entities:
  plugins:
    - name: datakit
      service: example-service
      config:
        debug: true
        nodes:
        - name: CAT_FACT
          type: call
          url: https://catfact.ninja/fact
        - name: DOG_FACT
          type: call
          url: https://dogapi.dog/api/v1/facts
        - name: JOIN
          type: jq
          inputs:
          - cat: CAT_FACT.body
          - dog: DOG_FACT.body
          jq: |
            {
              "cat_fact": $cat.fact,
              "dog_fact": $dog.facts[0]
            }
        - name: EXIT
          type: exit
          inputs:
          - body: JOIN
          status: 200
{% endentity_examples %}
<!--vale on -->

## 4. Validate

> Access the Service via the `/anything` path to test Datakit:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access the Service using the `/anything` path:
```
